Good morning, everyone.
Welcome here bright and early for
the Mac OS X Server Overview session.
Today we're going to go into depth on
some of the new features of Tiger Server,
and we're going to spend time
on how they work and give you
more information about them.
But before we do that,
I'd like to spend a little bit
of time talking about the key
goals we've had in developing
Mac OS X Server and Tiger Server.
Our first goal has been to make
sure that this is the easiest
server to set up and deploy,
and we've spent a lot of effort
on the tools to enable that.
But we want to make sure
that it's also not just easy,
but that it works well
in mixed environments.
I'm sure that all of you
have mixed environments,
and although Mac OS X Server integrates
well with the desktop with features
like client management and NetBoot
and now portable home directories,
we've also made sure that it
integrates seamlessly with your
existing clients and networks.
And finally, we've wanted to make it the
easiest path to deploying open
source to provide a scalable,
proven solution that works for
business-critical applications.
We started developing
Mac OS X Server about four years ago,
the first release in 2001.
And since then,
we've been building a portfolio of server
and storage products with the XServe,
the XServe RAID, the G5 XServe.
And now, last year,
we did a major new release
of Apple Remote Desktop,
our desktop management console.
And this year,
at the beginning of the year,
we introduced XAN,
our storage area network product.
And this spring, of course, Tiger Server,
our fifth release of the server
operating system in four years.
We've had one underlying strategy for
all these releases of Mac OS X Server,
and that's to take an
industry standard base,
to layer open source on top of it,
and then to integrate it
with Apple innovation.
Mac OS X Server is industry standard.
It's based on a Unix-based platform.
The Darwin kernel that underlies
Mac OS X Server is based on FreeBSD,
and it gives you the performance
and stability you'd expect
from a Unix-based server.
On top of that, we've taken the best
open source packages.
Instead of developing proprietary
services to provide the service
layer of Mac OS X Server,
we've taken Apache, and Samba, Kerberos,
OpenLDAP, Postfix, SpamAssassin,
and many more.
And we've integrated them all together.
And that integration has made
all these services work together.
For instance,
we've made sure that all these services
work together with LDAP and Kerberos,
so that you don't have to do
the integration on the platform.
And then we've layered
on top of that a unified,
integrated management console to
make the setup and deployment easy.
This integrated,
open-source strategy has worked well,
and we've seen the results of this
in rapid customer adoption of the
server product in the last few years.
And we're continuing this
momentum with Tiger Server,
with over 200 new features.
And some of the features that
we're going to go in-depth to
today are major new features,
such as access control lists,
the iChat server, X Grid,
portable home directories, and more.
So to tell you more about some of
the new features in Tiger Server,
I'd like to bring up Kazu Yanagihara,
and he's the engineering
manager for Core Server.
Good morning.
So let's first spend a
couple minutes looking at the
foundation of Mac OS X Server,
mostly for those of you
who are new to the product.
First, Unix Foundation.
Our server, as Greg mentioned,
is built on top of very solid,
proven technologies:
Mac kernel and FreeBSD.
It delivers all the key features that
one would expect from a modern OS,
such as SMP, protected memory,
real-time scheduling, and so on.
And in Tiger Server,
we've significantly improved
the scheduling performance
of SMP and multi-threading,
so you should see it's pretty
good news for all of us.
But probably the biggest news at
the Core OS layer in this release is
the introduction of 64-bit support,
especially for
high-performance computing.
We no longer have the limitations of 4GB
that's imposed upon us by 64-bit apps.
And with our 64-bit file system,
you can now have huge
volumes beyond 16TB limit.
And of course,
all the key libraries such as
Mathlib and Vectorlib have been
upgraded and optimized for 64-bit.
Development tools-wise,
every single copy of Tiger and
Tiger Server ships with Xcode 2,
which now fully supports
64-bit application development.
And lastly,
unlike on some other 64-bit OS platforms,
on Tiger, you can run native 32-bit
applications side-by-side with 64-bit.
So there is no emulation mode
or associated performance loss.
Next, our directory services system.
Our directory, open directory,
is based on industry standard LDAP,
and it also provides single sign-on
capabilities using Kerberos,
as well as support for different
authentication methods out there,
such as APOP and DHX.
It also has a plugin architecture
so you can extend it and integrate
with different directory systems
such as Active Directory and NIS.
It provides high availability
features such as server replication
and client-side failover in
case your server goes down.
And lastly, in Tiger Server,
we've implemented an
authenticated binding,
so you have a little
bit more security now.
So now let's start talking about some
of the higher level features that
we've implemented in Tiger Server.
And we're going to start with
File Access Control List,
which is also known as
File ACLs or File ACLs.
ACLs enable complex workflow in
places like publishing workgroups,
where you have different people
needing to have different
fine-grained permissions.
It also enables Tiger Server and
client to work much better
with Windows client and server.
With ACL,
we are now 100% compatible with the
NT-ACL model that's being used by
both Windows XP client and server.
So let's look at how it works.
Here's the old permissions
model that we had in Pencil
Server and previously released,
known as POSIX permissions.
As you can see,
you can define permissions
for just one user,
one group, and everybody else.
And the kinds of permissions that
you can set are fairly simple:
read-only, read-write, write-only,
or none.
With ACL, you can assign as many users
and groups as you want to any
particular file or folder.
And then for each of
those users and groups,
you can specify one of the
pre-existing or predefined permissions,
or you can go ahead and choose
the custom at the bottom,
and you can set very granular
permissions if you want to.
For example, you can say this particular
user can write to a file,
but cannot delete that particular file.
ASIO also supports allow and deny mode.
And in most cases,
people want to use allow mode,
but the deny mode gives you a little
bit more flexibility in defining
exactly the permissions you want.
For example,
you can set something like this,
where everybody in Apple's software
organization have read-write
access to one particular file,
but Kazu can only read,
and you can accomplish that
using something like this.
And lastly, for each of the folders
that you set permissions on,
you can also define inheritance.
So you can say how you want the
permissions that you've specified
to be inherited by files and
folders inside that folder.
So with ACL,
you have much more flexibility
in defining and enforcing access
permissions on your shared files.
But here's how we implemented it.
We didn't really get rid of all
the Unix or the POSIX permissions,
so it's still there.
So if you want to,
you don't really require ACLs,
you can continue to
use POSIX permissions.
But when you do need those
flexibility and power of ACL,
you can go ahead and use it.
So implementation is really
a best of both worlds.
You have the simplicity of Prozacs,
and then the power of ACL,
which you can mix and
match any way you'd like.
Administration-wise,
you can enable or disable
ACLs on per volume basis,
and then on Mac OS X Server,
it's enabled by default on
all the internal drives and
direct attach rate systems.
And you can manage it from GUI in
a workgroup manager application,
or you can use standard
Unix command line tools,
such as gmod.
And this is something that wasn't
just kind of bolted on top of system,
but it's really built into the system.
It's enforced by the kernel,
and it's supported by key
file systems in the OS.
And as I mentioned earlier,
we've also updated all
the command line tools,
so things like LS,
correctly display information
when you have ACL set.
And we've also modified
Finder and other copy engines,
so when you copy or duplicate files,
the permissions are
duplicated correctly as well.
And as I mentioned earlier,
it's fully compatible
with Windows NT ACL model.
So, whatever you set on Windows shows
up exactly the same on
Tiger Server and vice versa.
And we've also made a number
of changes to the rest of the
system for ACLs to work better.
For example,
we now generate 128-bit GUIDs,
or the global unique IDs,
every time you create users or groups.
So when you specify one of
those users or groups in ACL,
you have the-- I should say,
when you have that ACL specified,
you can just go ahead and make
sure that there's no ID conflict.
For example,
if you move a volume with ACL enabled
from one system to the other,
there's no ID conflict with ID 501,
for example.
We've also removed the 16
group membership limitations,
and also added support for nested groups.
So now you have much better
control over defining groups and
effectively utilizing them in ACL.
And lastly, we've introduced a new
daemon called MemberD,
which provides you with
group membership check,
as well as ID translation between UIDs,
GUIDs, and Windows SIDs, or security IDs.
And there's a public API,
so if you want to take advantage of it,
it's there for you.
For example, in your application,
if you want to check group
membership of a particular user,
instead of writing a code to actually
walk through all those nested groups,
you can just make a simple API call.
And here is the GUI of
Workgroup Manager looks like.
So on the top,
you can go ahead and continue to use
POSIX permissions if you want to.
But if you need more
flexibility and sophistication,
you can go ahead and
set ACLs at the bottom.
And when you have ACLs set,
it takes precedence over what
you specified in the POSIX panel.
And as you start to construct
very complex permissions with
a bunch of nested groups and
a mix of deny and allow mode,
a lot of times it's really difficult
to tell if a particular user,
what the particular permission
of the particular user is.
So to help you with that,
we do have a tool called Inspector.
which let you show exactly the
effective permission of any particular
user for any particular group,
or any particular folder or file.
So that's File ACL.
Now let's talk about
Service Access Control Lists.
So File ACLs are for
controlling access to the files,
and Service Control Lists
are for accessing control
to services such as AFP,
FTP, mail, and so on,
for a particular server.
And why do you want this?
Well, here's the problem.
So more and more people are really
centralizing all the users and groups
into a centralized directory system.
and in a lot of corporations
or educational institutions,
you have tens of thousands of users,
or hundreds of thousands of
users in your directory system,
which is a good thing.
It's much easier to manage that way.
But within the organization,
people also bind different servers,
the file servers, mail servers,
and so on, to that centralized directory,
which is also a good thing,
because people can just go ahead
and use single username and
password to connect to all different
services on all those servers.
But one problem there is now everybody,
the whole 10,000 or 100,000
of them in the directory,
have access to every single service and
every single server in your organization.
And that's the problem
service access control solves.
And setting it up is quite simple.
So for example,
if you want to limit access to your
file server to only a few people,
all it takes is just two steps.
One, on the left-hand side,
you can define which service
you want to control access to.
And then, on the right-hand side,
you can just drag any number
of users or groups into it,
and save, and that's it.
Now only those three people,
Chris LeCroy,
Kazu Yanagihar and Mike Lopp,
has access to your file server
out of the thousands of people
in the directory system.
So it's very simple,
but it's also very powerful.
So if you're interested in
learning more about ACLs,
there are two sessions
you may want to attend.
There's one this
afternoon on file systems,
where we're going to talk about more
of the technical aspects of file ACLs.
And tomorrow,
we have a session dedicated to ACLs,
both file and service ACLs.
And there, we're going to talk about
different features more in detail,
as well as talk about best practices
for sysadmins and developers,
with some nice demos.
So if you have time, please attend.
Two o'clock tomorrow.
Now let's talk about two
collaboration services that
we've introduced in Tiger Server.
We're going to start with iChat Server.
Here are some of the reasons why you
may want to deploy Mac OS X Server as
your instant messaging solution.
It's very low cost.
There's no per client access license.
It's standards-based,
so there are tons of different open
source products out there that you
can integrate on different platforms.
It's integrated with open directory,
and most important of all,
it's very secure.
So security, of course,
it supports service access controllers,
so you can specify exactly
who in the directory system
can use the iChat server.
It also encrypts every single
message that gets passed
between client and server,
so people can adjust network and then
see what you're talking in your iChat.
And we also support body authorization,
so for anybody to add
you to their body list,
they need to first get
authorization from you,
which means random people cannot just
add you to their body list and start to
track and monitor your online presence.
Cross-platform, so it is based on
Java D open source project,
and it supports Java D protocol,
which means you can interoperate
with all the clients on Windows,
Linux, different flavors of Unix,
and even cell phones and PDAs.
And there's a pretty interesting
demo coming up in a few
minutes to demonstrate that.
And it's, iChat server automatically
uses directory services,
so there's no need for you to go ahead
and set up separate external account on
AOL or Yahoo Messenger or anywhere else.
Everything stays within your firewall.
And of course, it fully supports all
the features of iChat,
such as chat rooms and U+3
audio and video conferencing.
And lastly, we have some nice features
such as Store and Forward,
where you can go ahead and send a
message to somebody who is not online,
and then when that person becomes online,
the message gets delivered,
even if you're offline at that time.
It's sort of like a voicemail.
And here's an example deployment of
iChat server within your corporation
or educational institution.
You have the directory server there
with all the users and groups defined,
which means, again,
you don't need to create
an external account,
and the users can use the same
username and password that they use to
connect to file server or mail server.
And your iChat server is inside, again,
inside a firewall,
meaning your messages don't leave your
company or educational institution.
It all stays within the firewall.
And then everything that stays
within is also encrypted,
so it's a very secure system.
And you can really deploy
this with very low cost.
All it takes is just one Mac OS X server,
and hopefully open directory server.
And it's also very easy to set up.
You can set it up
probably in a few minutes.
So now I'd like to invite Chris LeCroy
to come up to the stage and then give us
a quick demo of iChat Server in action.
Can I have demo two, please?
All right.
So, iChat server.
So, let me first show you the
UI for configuring it.
In server admin, it's really simple.
Basically, specify the domain that you
want to use for your Jabber IDs.
In this case,
we're kind of using a closed network,
so I have kind of a funny name.
But an example of what
you'd want to do here is,
at Apple, we want to have our IDs be
things like lecroy@apple.com,
but the server we run on may
not actually be apple.com.
It's probably going to
be jabber.apple.com.
So, this field allows you to tell
the server what kind of host
names it'll accept for chats.
You can add a welcome message for people
to see the first time they log in.
And you can specify the SSL certificate.
By default, you're going to get the
default certificate.
It's unsigned, so there are some
clients that may comply.
But you can always go use our new
certificate UI in server admin
and get a signed certificate and
cause those warnings to go away.
iChat does not complain about it,
so that's good.
So that's basically it for setting it up.
And let me show you a
little bit of a demo here.
So here's iChat.
I'm not going to do a
big iChat client demo,
because you guys have all
seen that a million times.
Just show you some of the
unique things with Jabber.
So if you look at the bottom here,
Wilfredo Sanchez waiting
for authorization.
What that means is that
I've invited Wilfredo to,
or I've asked him if I can
have him in my buddy list.
Until he authorizes me,
I'm not going to be able
to see his presence.
And I can still chat with him,
but I just won't be able
to see his presence.
So on his side,
he's going to get a little
notification saying,
would like to add you to his buddy list,
and he'll say okay.
And then he'll show up
like Al Begley does here,
with proper authorization.
Another kind of cool feature is,
even when people are offline with Jabber,
you can still send them messages.
So I know that Doug likes to sleep in.
So I can send him a chat and as
soon as his machine wakes up,
after he wakes up,
he's going to get that instant message.
He's going to know that I want him
to call as soon as he wakes up.
So that's about all I'm going to
show you with the iChat client.
So as Kazu mentioned,
there are like hundreds of
Jabra clients out there,
from Windows, Linux, PDAs, everything.
I actually went and downloaded
an open-source Python-based
client called XMPP-PY.
And I installed it.
It took like two minutes to install.
And it gives you this really rich
library of Jabber functionality
that you can access via Python,
which means you can access
it from shell scripts.
So here's kind of what a command
looks like for sending a message.
Xsend is the name of the little tool.
I'm sending it to
Chris LeCroy at www.c.local.
So if I hit that,
basically I've sent myself a
little message from the terminal.
So, mine on it.
So, kind of extending that,
Mac OS X Server ships with a
utility called Disk Space Monitor,
and what it does is it monitors
hard drive space and will send
notifications when it notices that
certain thresholds have been reached.
So what I've done is I've
modified that script.
There's kind of a default script.
The default script that we changed,
so what's in blue is what I changed.
I typically,
or by default it sends emails.
So I commented out the
line that sends email,
and I just added a few
X send calls in there.
So let me show you how that works now.
So I've got a...
A server, so I've mounted an AFP volume.
It's a very small volume,
only 2.4 megabytes.
I'm going to copy a 2.3 megabyte
file over to that volume.
And in a few seconds,
Disk Space Monitor noticed that
the hard drive got full and
it sent me a message saying,
"My hard drive is full with a bunch of
information." So this is really useful.
There are all kinds of
things you can monitor.
You can have it send it to iChat.
If you've got other clients,
if you've got a Jabber
client on your phone,
you can throw away your pager.
So basically that's iChat,
or iChat Server.
So we now ship block server
that's based on standards and
integrated with open directory.
And it's such a turnkey product,
you can just go ahead and start using
it without any additional software.
The old editor is built
into the browser and so on.
So let's take a look.
Security-wise,
it of course uses or supports
service access controllers,
so you can again decide
who can access this server.
And you can also use Kerberos
for authentication if you
want the most security there.
And it's based on popular
BroadSum project out there,
and uses all the standard protocols,
which means your users can use standalone
editors or viewers if you want to,
or you can use what's built
into a product based on browser.
And you can create individual user
blogs or group blogs for collaboration,
in which case anybody in that
group can create and edit
blogs for a particular project,
for example.
We do have this auto-blog
creation feature,
so every time a user first logs in,
not every time,
but first time when the user logs in,
the server automatically
creates a blog for that user,
so the sysadmin doesn't have to
do any manual configuration there.
And lastly, we do ship with a handful
of very nice-looking themes,
but if you want to, you can add your own.
And there's also plugin API,
so you can extend the functionality
of the server if you want to do
something additional to meet needs
of your specific environment.
Here's what GUI looks
like in the browser.
It's one of the themes.
But rather than me just kind
of going over every single one,
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
invite Chris back onto stage so he can
show us the live version of the software.
Okay, so as Kazu mentioned,
its weblog server is based on Blodsum.
First thing is it's
really easy to get to.
If you just go to the host
name on a server machine,
you get our default web page,
and you'll see a little
web log link over here.
Make that a little bigger
for those of you in the back.
Maybe a little smaller.
Welcome.
Thank you.
That's Weblog Server.
Okay, so clicked on the weblog link,
and what you're seeing here are a
list of the weblogs on this server.
Weblogs are actually created dynamically,
so everybody in the directory system
who has access to the server can
create a weblog really easily by
just typing in their short name.
So I'm going to type in Michael,
and Michael doesn't have a weblog,
or didn't have one.
Now he does have a weblog.
Went out, looked in the directory,
and just automatically
generated his weblog,
so the administrator
doesn't have to do anything.
It's very easy.
[Transcript missing]
They've all got kind of
calendar-based navigation.
They've all got support for categories.
Here's one.
Looks a lot like the default web page.
Here's one that's a little cooler
with some transparency and a little
three-dimensional window there.
Let me show you what the... We tried
to... We used a lot of dynamic HTML,
and we really tried to make the
experience not too web-like,
I guess, is one way to put it.
So these little windows that pop up
make it really easy to... make it feel
like you're kind of in an application.
So let me log into ELLs blog and
show you how to do a new entry.
So create new entry.
I guess that would be personal status.
Oh, and geez, I guess I should do
spell checking on that.
So that's how you do data entry.
Oh, another thing is that it completely
integrates with Safari RSS.
Use that UI if I'd like to.
And because of the
integration with Safari RSS,
there are kind of some
unique things you can do.
So we actually use this a lot at Apple,
especially for team status.
So I've got bookmarks to everybody's
status that are actually feed URLs,
which are the Safari RSS URL type.
Kind of the cool thing about it is
I can have my entire team in a folder,
and I can do view all RSS articles.
And I can see everybody's status now,
and it's really a lot easier
than dealing with all the emails
coming in with people's status.
I like it a lot.
And then another thing we do at Apple,
so we didn't build this to try to
compete with any of the internet
blogging services out there.
There are a zillion of those.
We really intended for this to be kind
of an internal collaboration tool.
So we use it internally quite a bit.
And here's an example of
just an example project.
We use it for project status primarily.
So in this example,
I've got different categories.
I've got build info.
One thing to note about Blogson is that
the weblogs are actually text files.
So if you wanted to,
you can build little tools that actually
generate little blog entries for you
like the build system is doing here.
You know, meeting notes, project status,
it's all searchable,
so if I noticed in this project status
here that the first official build,
1A322,
was fired off and it was a total failure,
I can go in here and search for... Oops,
I have to go back to all entries.
Search for 1.8.3.22 and then get
any info about that build problem.
And that's basically it for WebLogs.
Thanks, Chris.
So next, let's talk about X Grid.
It's our distributed computing solution.
Here are some of the reasons why you
may want to use Mac OS X Server with Xub
for your distributed computing needs.
We now have a nice 64-bit architecture.
We ship pretty nice development tools,
Xcode 2.
And we have Xgrid,
our distributed computing engine,
built into the OS,
which ships with nice management
tools and supports open directory
with features like single-sign-on
authentication using Kerberos.
But before we talk about it,
let's take a quick look at how it works.
There are three parts to it-- the client,
controller, and agents.
Client is a system where you submit jobs,
jobs being some sort
of computational jobs,
such as calculating first
1 billion prime numbers,
or rendering graphics files, or so on.
And when the job gets
submitted to the controller,
the controller breaks it
down into different tasks,
number of tasks, and assigns each task
to a different agent.
So the agents can go ahead and
do the computation in parallel.
The agents send back the task
result to the controller.
The controller puts everything
back together and then notifies the
client when the whole job is done.
And of course, at that point,
the client can go ahead and retrieve
the result of the job that's submitted.
So that's sort of the 45-second
overview of how X-Grid works.
And X Grid is built into
every Tiger and Tiger Server.
On the server side,
you can make any Tiger Server a
controller or agent.
And you can define that,
or both actually, and you can define that
in server admin software.
On the desktop side,
any Tiger desktop can become an agent.
All you have to do is go to
the system preference panel,
go to sharing panel,
and then click check on that
little X grid mark at the bottom.
And if you want,
you can configure things like
different authentication methods,
or whether you want your machine
to be always acting as agent,
or only when you're sitting idle,
not using the computer.
We've also posted a PanServ
version of the agent on the web,
so you can download and make
any PanServ desktop or the
server XGrid agent as well.
And setting up Next Grid is very simple.
It uses Bonjour to discover
all the controllers and agents.
And it really, within a few minutes,
you can click, click, click,
and set up your whole grid,
ready for computation.
So of course,
integrated with open directory,
which means it uses all the users in the
centralized directory for authentication,
and it supports things
like authentication,
as well as password-based authentication.
On the client side,
there are two different ways
that you can submit jobs.
One way is by using the
command line tool that we ship.
You can either invoke them
directly from the terminal,
from your shell script,
or C program or whatever you want.
Or you can go ahead and create
a custom Cocoa application
using our new X Grid Cocoa API,
which is on the SDK for it on the DVD.
And complex workflow support.
Xgrid supports dependencies management
between jobs and between tasks.
So you can say, start this job when this
particular job is complete,
so you can take a result from it
and do additional computation on it.
And you can really put together a big,
complex system to solve your
huge rocket science problem.
And lastly,
we've improved our scalability
limit somewhat since our last
release of Technical Preview 2,
which was last summer, I believe.
So here are some of the improved
limitations listed here.
And Xgrid ships with its own
admin software called Xgrid Admin,
and here's what it looks like.
So with this app, you can create grid,
you can assign different
agents to the grid,
and on the right-hand side,
you can manage jobs and agents.
You can monitor them,
you can pause or resume jobs,
you can delete them, reassign them,
and so on.
Of course,
you have a bunch of different statistics,
so you can see how much aggregates
through CPU power you have,
for example.
And here's an example
deployment of X Grid,
maybe at a science
department at a university.
So of course you have the
controller in the middle,
and then in this case you
have a rack full of X Serves
that are dedicated agents.
So any researchers with
right authorization can
submit jobs to this system,
either from his or her
laptop or from desktop.
And then the person can
wait for the result,
or he can go away and then be notified,
since some of those jobs
may take days or even weeks.
But with X Grid,
you can also take advantage of the
CPU power that may be just sitting
idle right there in your institution.
So for example,
student computer lab machines
or some of the desktops that's
being used by secretaries that
are not being used after 5:00,
if you mark the little checkbox
in the system preference panel,
the controller automatically discovers
them and starts assigning tasks.
So you don't have any
CPU sitting there just idle,
wasting time.
Even any computer on the internet
can contribute to the grid.
Again, all you have to do is
check the little check box,
and then type in the
IP address of the controller,
and now you have the SETI at
home style computational engine.
So I can call my grandma
in Japan and say,
hey, grandma,
if you're not using a computer today,
can you turn it on and do the
checkbox and type in these four
numbers with that in between?
And then I can use the extra 1.8
gigahertz in Japan to solve some
of the problems here in the US.
So that's what XGrid is,
and it's primarily for scientific
market or the professionals,
such as graphics and video editing.
But some people are starting to
take a look at this and start
to use it in more creative ways.
For example,
one of the groups in my department
is looking at using this as
an automated testing engine.
So you can distribute a
whole bunch of different test
scripts to multiple machines,
get it executed, and collect the result.
So if you have time,
take a look and then see sort of creative
ways you can think of to use XGrid.
Here are some of the sessions
that are related to X Grid and
high-performance computing.
In particular, the third one,
Using X Grid to Create Blah Blah Blah,
is the one dedicated to X Grid.
It's just too long.
So, and then there you have to,
we're going to have a pretty nice
demo of how you can use X Grid to
improve the productivity of your
day-to-day tasks that have nothing
to do with scientific computing.
So, when you get a chance,
drop by and take
And that's all I had, so now I'd like to
introduce Michael Lopp,
who's going to tell us all about
desktop management features built
into Tiger and Tiger Server.
Michael.
Thanks, Kazu.
Good morning, everyone.
My name is Michael Lopp.
I run the
Desktop Management Technologies Group at
Apple.
And I'm going to give you
guys a super-fast overview of
desktop management at Apple,
and I'm going to give you a demo
of portable home directories,
as well as talk about software updates.
So we've got a lot of tools built
straight--a lot of desktop management
technology built straight into Tiger,
as well as some great
tools in Tiger Server.
Right now, WorkRoot Manager has a great
utility we call Manage Desktop,
which allows you to really deploy
a wide variety of different
management policies to your desktops.
Maybe you're running a school.
Maybe you've got--you want to
lock down a desktop and not have
the kids doing strange things.
Or maybe you've got a small
business where you want to just
plant breadcrumbs on a desktop.
WorkRoot Manager is a great way to
deploy and manage your desktops.
I'm not going to demo it today,
but there's a lot of sessions
that I'll be talking about it.
The other technology I'm
responsible for is system imaging.
This is NetBoot Network Install,
a great technology that will actually
allow you to actually boot images
over the network or also allow
you to build custom images and
deploy software via network install.
So I'm going to talk about software
update server and portable home
directors a little bit more.
I want to put a plug in for ARD.
ARD 2.2 just came out with Tiger.
This has Tiger support and it's
the Swiss Army knife of management,
the way--that's what I think of it.
You see the binoculars there that
were actually in the keynote as well.
And that's a feature that we're famous
for is the observing and controlling.
There's a lot of other features in ARD.
And I encourage you to
check out the ARD website.
I've got a lot of other features in
ARD and I encourage you to go to a
lot of the sessions and check it out.
So, let's get started.
Software update server.
Probably know what this is.
You've got some interesting
challenges with software update.
First issue, it's really a question.
It's how do I maintain standard
desktop configurations?
How do I test updates
before my users get to them?
How do I minimize bandwidth costs?
When software updates
are a force of nature,
they just seem to always be coming.
And also,
with the software update client,
it's really easy for users to
get to these updates without
you actually being in the way,
which may be a little bit of a
So, anyway,
we have a software update server which we
really released as part of Tiger Server.
This is a proxy cache of all of our
software updates on your local system,
which gives you management and
control over all those updates.
You've got to be in the intermediary
from all of the updates.
And the good thing is,
when that 20-meg keynote update shows up,
and you can actually restrict it
so that users can actually see it
until it actually is available,
until you want to make it available.
So let's go over the
network diagram here.
Up at the top, we've got the mother ship.
That's all -- that's our
software update servers,
and every single update
is up there right now.
And then you have the Internet,
and you have your infrastructure,
and then you have all your clients.
So what we want to do here,
what a software update
server allows you to do,
it allows you to put a
server right in the middle,
an XServe, and actually this will be your
cache of all the software updates.
So what that means is,
when that 1,000 -- when that
new keynote update shows up and
1,000 users try to download it,
they're going to download
it from your infrastructure,
from your network.
They're not going to pull
it down from the Internet.
Huge bandwidth savings there.
And of course, via Workgroup Manager,
you can actually control -- you
can control the updates as well
as you can manage the software
update server via Server Admin.
Surprise, surprise.
Sorry, you guys in the back probably
can't see this very well,
but it looks a lot like
Software Update Client.
Key difference, though.
You're going to see,
when you first turn on
Software Update Server,
you're going to see the
updates that are going to be
on your software update server.
You're normally used to seeing only
the updates that apply to your machine.
So you're probably going to see
some things you've never seen before
because you've never installed,
I don't know, motion.
So remember,
all the updates are going to be
on your software update server.
And there's two columns here.
You can't see it in the back,
but there's a mirror and
there's an enable column.
Mirror means pull this -- pull
this update down and put it on
my -- put it on my local server.
Enable means actually
share that with my network.
And then all the other information
that you can see about that.
So as I said,
there's a lot of different management
scenarios that you might have.
You -- that you can manage
a software update with.
So maybe you want to
use WorkRoute Manager.
You can actually do that and have
the Software Update Client point at
your server versus another server.
Or you can use -- you can actually use
the inspector and directory to actually
change a -- change the record that we
look up the Software Update Server for.
And also,
if you're building custom images,
you can just use a command
line to actually configure
the Software Update Client.
We are totally integrated with
the Software Update Client
and it's a great tool.
It's a really handy tool to
defer a lot of costs from,
you know, all the bandwidth costs as well
as controlling all the updates.
So that's Software Update Server.
Portable home directories.
This is a cool feature.
So we have some other challenges
in mob -- with mobility.
And it's not just mobile computers.
First off,
we do have mobile computers and they're
wandering around all over the place.
We got all the machines in here.
We got the ones down at Starbucks.
When you're an IT person,
you're responsible for monitoring
and managing the machines.
It's really hard to do that
when they're not there.
So that's a big thing.
So that's a big challenge.
The other thing is users are mobile too.
In a lot of K-12,
students are moving from machine
to machine and the problem
they have is their content's
not following them around.
So the technology to solve
this problem already exists.
We already have home directories,
a nice envelope which does that.
If you end synchronization
on top of that,
you get -- whoops, sorry -- you get an
interesting transition.
You combine mobile home
directories with synchronization,
and you get portable home directories.
So let's do a quick scenario here.
Your most important file.
Let's talk about this.
Got this gentleman down here right here.
He's got his portable and he's writing
his most important document right now.
Don't know what it is,
but it's a big deal.
And if he loses it, that's a problem.
So the problem is he writes his document,
it's on there,
and it's an obvious problem,
but if that computer vanishes,
his content's gone too.
But this guy's bright.
He knows there's some guys in the
back room with a rack of servers,
and these servers are well maintained,
and if one of these servers goes down,
cell phone goes off,
and someone gets a call,
and they drop whatever they're doing,
and he knows that if he puts
his file on that document --
that document on that server,
chances if he's portable
being harmed or vanishing,
he still has his content.
We all want to do this.
We all want to back up our content,
but we don't always remember to do it.
What we want is a synchronization
-- we want a synchronization tool
that actually does it for us.
And that's what portable
home directories is.
Another network diagram.
So it's very similar
to a software update.
So you have your servers up on
top and your clients down below.
What happens is all your clients,
when they have portable homes
actually working for you,
it actually does synchronization.
When the network goes away,
the synchronization actually stops.
And then when the network reappears,
the synchronization will continue again.
So what I'm actually going
to do -- and actually,
I'll demo this in one second,
but I want to show you how
you can actually opt into
software update -- I mean,
software -- portable home directories.
There's two ways.
If you've got a network,
if you've got a network account
and you log into your account,
you go into accounts preference,
you'll see at the bottom there's
a configure button there.
If you click that, you'll see
You're actually going to see
the various options that you
have that you can configure.
There's a timing policy,
how often do you want me to sync,
and then there's what
do you want me to sync,
which content.
Now you're thinking,
that's pretty simple.
Here's some great news.
There's a million ways to
configure this via WorkRootManager.
So we've got three,
this is actually a sub-screen
shot of within WorkRootManager.
We've got three panels.
Login/logout sync, background sync,
and the options associated with it.
Login/logout sync is,
tell me what I should be syncing
every time I log in/log out.
Which content, which folders,
whatever you want.
Below it is the exclusion list.
Maybe you don't want to be syncing all
your MP3s or your video or whatever.
So we allow you to create really
complex exclusion lists to say,
don't sync this.
So that's login/logout sync.
Background sync has the
same basic set of options,
except background's actually
happening when you're sitting
there at your machine.
Same options, which content.
as well as the exclusion list.
And then lastly,
The options.
How often do I sync?
Every five minutes.
Maybe I don't want to
do background syncing.
Maybe I just want to turn it off
and actually just do it manually.
So, let's give a quick demo here.
I'm going to go to demo three.
I call this the
dog-eat-my-powerbook scenario.
And I won't be demoing a dog
actually eating a powerbook.
So what I'm going to do here
is this is my powerbook,
and I've got my demo files here.
And what I'm going to do here
is I'm going to create my
three most important files,
okay?
And I have them right here.
I have Project X,
which is my career-defining project.
This is a big deal that gets done.
And I have all my specs
associated with it.
And if it doesn't work out,
I've got my resume just in case.
So these are very important
files that I need.
So what I'm going to go ahead
and do is actually pull these
and put them on my desktop.
Okay, and then I'm gonna change,
what time is it?
It's 9:44.
So let's change this one here.
If I can click it, there we go.
I opened it.
There we go, and it's 9:44 still.
Okay, so now I'm gonna synchronize.
Now, normally you wouldn't do this,
what I'm about to do,
'cause the synchronization
will just happen for you.
It's gonna be happening
behind the scenes.
So we'll go ahead and we'll synchronize.
And you'll see a dialogue here in one
second as the synchronization occurs.
Again,
normally you will never see this because
it's happening in the background.
So why do we call this the
dog-eat-my-powerbook scenario?
It's because a lot of students
come up with interesting excuses
for losing their content.
And who knows what's going
to happen to this powerbook.
So let's just say that this powerbook
got eaten by a dog and it's gone.
My content's gone.
My resume, my projects,
my project schedule.
So let's go over to demo two.
Login as me.
Because I want to remember, oh wait,
I turn on portable
homes for this account.
So shouldn't everything that
I did be actually synchronized
with my network home directory?
And there you go.
Let's actually organize
this a little bit.
There's my resume.
There's my time-stamped file.
And there's my folders.
Everything has been backed up for me.
I know this machine right here.
I realize it's a simple demo,
but the point is,
portable home directories are working
for you when you least expect it.
Because when we were installing,
late in the development cycle,
we were installing a lot
of versions of Tiger.
And we turned them into portable
home directories because
we were developing them.
Now what we found is,
on the second time that we upgraded the
OS to the latest development version,
suddenly all my content was
there from the previous day.
And the reason was,
as I turned on portable home directories,
everything was being synced
with my network home.
So what I found was,
my content was constantly
following me around.
These are the sort of ah-has you're going
to have with portable home directories.
And I think it's an
amazingly great feature.
So that's all I have.
I've been great back up.
Thank you very much.
All right, thanks, Michael.
So I'm just going to wrap it up here.
Tiger Server-- so you've heard about
the foundation of Tiger Server with
some major new features with ACLs
and 64-bit application support.
On top of that, we have open source.
We've added some new services-- Blodsham,
Jabber, and then we have-- oh,
and SpamAssassin, of course,
and many others.
And on top of that,
we have also services that integrate
directly with the Mac OS X desktop.
And we talked about a few
of those as well-- X Grid,
and Software Update Server,
and Portable Home Directories.
For more information,
we mentioned a bunch of sessions
throughout the presentation.
Of course, at the Apple developer site,
there's also documentation
and downloads available.
And there are some other sessions that
we'll be having throughout the week
as well that you ought to check out.
So, for Active Directory and
for Open Directory support,
we have a few sessions
throughout the week.
If you are programming
with WebObjects or J2E,
there are two sessions today
that you should check out.
We have a session
tomorrow afternoon on XAN,
our Storage Area Network product.
And we'll stay up here shortly
after the presentation,
but I want to definitely put in a
plug tomorrow morning for anyone
that has feedback or questions to
attend the server feedback forum.
It's tomorrow morning at 10:30 a.m.
And then throughout the week,
we have hands-on labs in the
Enterprise IT Lab related
to the various products,
and there'll be people there
that can answer your questions.